feat(perf-issues): Large http payload docs [don't merge until EA] (#6646)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/large-http-payload/index.mdx

---
title: "Large HTTP Payload"
sidebar_order: 30
redirect_from:
  - /product/issues/performance-issues/large-http-payload/
description: "Learn more about Large HTTP Payload issues, how to diagnose and fix them."
---

<Include name="early-adopter-note.mdx" />

> Large HTTP payload issues are created when an http span has an encoded body size that exceeds a threhsold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Large HTTP payload issues are created when an http span has an encoded body size that exceeds a threshold.
```
Can we say what the threshold is or does it vary?

> ## Detection Criteria
> 
> The detector for this performance issue looks for a single http span that meets the following criteria
> 
> - The http method must be a GET, POST, DELETE, PUT, PATCH
> - The http url must not begin with _next/static/ or _next/data/
> - The http url must not end with the extensions .js, .css, .svg, .png, .mp3, .jpg, .jpeg
> 
> Once an http span that meets this criteria is found, the encoded body size is checked against a threshold.
> 
> If Sentry isn't detecting a large http payload issue where you expect one, it's probably because the transaction didn't meet one of the above criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Detection Criteria

The detector for this performance issue looks for a single http span that meets the following criteria:

- The http method must be a GET, POST, DELETE, PUT, PATCH
- The http url must not begin with _next/static/ or _next/data/
- The http url must not end with the extensions .js, .css, .svg, .png, .mp3, .jpg, .jpeg

Once an http span that meets this criteria is found, the encoded body size is checked against a threshold. If Sentry isn't detecting a large http payload issue where you expect one, it's probably because the transaction didn't meet one of the above criteria.
```

## Span Evidence

> You can identify a Consecutive http problem by four main aspects in the "Span Evidence" section:
> 
> - Transaction name
> - Slow resource span - The large http span, usually containing the asset url
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find additional information about your Large http Payload problem by four main aspects in the "Span Evidence" section:

- **Transaction name.**
- **Slow resource span:** The large http span, usually containing the asset url.

```
Want to make sure we are being consistent about calling the issue by the same name.

![Large HTTP payload span evidence](span-evidence.png)

> View it by going to the **Issues** page in Sentry, selecting your project, clicking on the Large HTTP Payload error you want to examine, then scrolling down to the "Span Evidence" section in the "Details" tab.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View it by going to the **Issues** page in Sentry, selecting your project, clicking on the Large HTTP Payload issue you want to examine, then scrolling down to the "Span Evidence" section in the "Details" tab.

```

> ## Fixing Large HTTP Payload Issues
> 
> The reasons for a consecutive large http payload issue varies, but here are some suggestions to help you resolve them.
> - If you have control over the backend, check if you are sending more data then you need or if the data can be processed further before being sent to the client.
> - If all the data is needed from the endpoint, consider methods such as pagination in order to split up the data across views.
> - Check if any changes were made to your serializer, resuling in a large body size then necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fixing Large HTTP Payload Issues

The reasons for getting consecutive Large http Payload issues vary, but here are some suggestions to help you resolve them.
- If you have control over the backend, check if you're sending more data than you need or if the data can be processed further before being sent to the client.
- If all the endpoint data is needed, consider methods such as pagination to split up data across views.
- Check if any changes were made to your serializer that may have resulted in a larger body size than necessary.
```
